Hey hey, so in this video we're gonna talk about
try catch for error handling we'll
be talking about how to decouple our
code with the try catch method mainly
used for file handling applications but
it could be used in a team so that one
person could move on perhaps accepting
that the other person has to stay behind
and get the bugs fixed and we're going to be
isolating our score display issues and
then making sure that our game fails
gracefully. So let me show you what this
try catch thing's all about let's go to our
game manager which is where our
problem is. Remember from pin counter it's
really important that game manager dot bowl
finishes execution so that the pin counter
can continue through when it does
actually call game manager dot bowl. So I'm
gonna show you how try catch works, what
we do is we go try and then open curly
braces we have a code block so I'll indent
this lot which I'm doing with command or
control and right bracket;  OK so I indent
my code and then I come back out
again so I'm gonna try that lot but if
it doesn't work I'm gonna catch the
error in another code block, and in this case I'm
simply gonna go debug dot log warning
and then it's not going to, by the way this
isn't gonna stop the problem happening,
you're gonna do that, but I'm just
showing you how to do it.
Debug log warning something went wrong in
game manager, or just in bowl will do, cause you'll
be able to see from the error log where it's
happening so that's how do the try
catch it tries to do these things, if
they succeed great just carries on out
to here, if they don't succeed then it
will log a warning and carry on
crucially so what I want you to do now
is to put a very similar try catch loop
around the score display line, the
offending line, that's your job now so
that the game runs so use the same try
catch pattern; protect score display dot
fill roll card bowls with it and then check
that your game now runs without any
warnings. Go on then.
You're doing it, right? Fantastic so here we go
let's just do the same thing so try and
fill the role card but if you get in
trouble then catch the problem and debug
log out a warning, while
fill roll card failed, or errored. ok so
let's look at  that. Now whatever happens when
pin counter calls into bowl it's going
to... even if there's an error in one of
these three lines it'll make it
to here, and then if there's an error in
this line then it'll still get through. So the
execution should continue now, let's go
have a look in unity; see what happens
we bowl, it counts four standing pins, the ball
resets, it tells us that the Fill Roll
Card failed, of course it failed, we've
contrived this whole thing so that it
fails but look, the game continues and it's
doing the right thing, there it did a
tidy and if I bowl down the middle
it'll do an end turn... and life's all good again. So is it ok
to polyfill over an error like this? Well
carefully, yes here's a guideline: do not
polyfill over an error you don't
understand. So I specifically made sure
we wrote down the trace and understood
what's going on here before we poly
filled over it OK? You never never try catch
yourself out of a problem that you don't
understand so the second thing to
say is it's ok if you know what you're
doing, so you could just paste over it
like this because this may be a one in a
thousand times error and it may make a lot
of sense to protect a crucial execution
loop like that and it might be that what
this actually does when it catches this
error is rather than just logging maybe
it actually puts something in a log file
or even sends back to your server saying
wow this weird things happened what's
going on and sends a bug report, you
know those automated bug reports you
get? They've probably come out of
something like this and maybe the player
can carry on you know maybe it's only
in one in a thousand games of bowling that this this error occurred,
depending on how you've written this
method and maybe the player could just
carry on and go that's weird I've got a
strange score this time but it doesn't
happen for them again so this is a case
of failing gracefully, this is setting
your code up to fail gracefully. Of
course somebody needs to - preferably you -
follow right behind you and fix this
code which is exactly what needs to
happen next.
What we need to do is think about how to
actually make fill roll card work
properly but that's a subject of another
video so for now congratulations you
have a new tool in your armoury, the try
catch structure. Do look up try catch
C# and have a look on the web,
there are some more terms you can use
here, some more things you can do with it,
and I look forward to seeing you soon.